CSEE4119: Computer Networks
                  Final Preview
                            Xia Zhou
                 Department of Computer Science
                       Columbia University
                           Slides credited to J.F Kurose and K.W. Ross and their textbook “Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach”
Recap
§ Basics
 • Protocol

 • Circuit switching vs packet switching

 • Performance metrics: transmission rate/time, packet delay, end-
   to-end throughput, packet loss rate, bandwidth latency product,
   propagation delays, etc

 • Layers: modular functionality, headers
                                                                Application Layer: 2-2
Recap
§ Application layer
  • Client-server, peer-to-peer
  • Sockets
  • Web: persistent, non-persistent HTTP connection; web cache
  • DNS
  • Video streaming
  • P2P: BitTorrent, file distribution time analysis, DHT


                                                                 Application Layer: 2-3
Recap
§ Transport layer
  • UDP: connection-less, minimalist

  • TCP: Reliable data transfer
     • Mechanisms to deal with bit errors, packet delay, packet losses, out-of-
       order arrivals, duplicated packets
     • GBN vs selective repeat




                                                                             Application Layer: 2-4
Recap
§ Transport layer
  • TCP: Congestion control
    • End-host based vs network-assisted congestion control

    • TCP main mechanisms: slow start, AIMD

    • Packet-loss based vs packet-delay based

    • Mainstream: CUBIC, BBR



                                                              Application Layer: 2-5
Recap
§ Network layer: data plane
  • Longest-prefix matching

  • IP address: prefix/subnet, host address, DHCP

  • Network address translation (NAT)

  • IPv4 vs IPv6



                                                    Application Layer: 2-6
Recap
§ Network layer: control plane
  • Two types of routing algorithms: link state routing, distance vector
    routing

  • Their comparison

  • BGP, difference from distance vector routing

  • SDN concept


                                                                    Application Layer: 2-7
Recap
§ Data link layer for wired links
   • Error detection and correction code

  • Medium access control
     • Goal, types

     • ALOHA, efficiency analysis

     • CSMA/CD



                                           Application Layer: 2-8
Recap
§ Wireless
  • Basics of wireless physical layer: free-space pathloss model,
    characteristics of wireless channel

  • Wireless MAC protocols
     • Hidden terminals, exposed terminals

     • CSMA/CA



                                                                    Application Layer: 2-9
Example Question
#1: To TCP, a lost segment is interpreted as a sign of congestion: if an
ACK is not received by the sender, the sender will reduce its rate of
transmission.

In which scenario does a lost segment not imply congestion?

A: An ACK would not be sent if the segment has bit errors and does
not pass the checksum. In this case, it does not imply congestion.


                                                                     Application Layer: 2-10
Example Question
#2: The dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCP) is the network
management protocol used by devices to request IP addresses from
the local DHCP server. Suppose your computer receives a reply from
the DHCP server with an IP address 128.16.51.2 and a subnet mask
255.255.240.0.
What is the network prefix of your newly assigned IP address? What is
the host address? How many hosts can be in the subnet?

A: The network prefix is 128.16.48.0 or 128.16.48.0/20, and the host address is
0.0.3.2. Twelve bits are used to represent the host address, so 2^12 hosts can be
in the subnet.
                                                                             Application Layer: 2-11
Example Question
#3: Columbia has a direct network connection to CERN in Geneva, for
collaboration with the Large Hadron Collider team. Columbia also has
a peering relationship with NYU. Can NYU students go to CERN via
Columbia? If not, what aspect of BGP can be used to make sure that
everyone on the Columbia network can get to CERN but nobody else
can get to CERN via Columbia?

A: No, NYU students cannot get to CERN via Columbia. BGP path
export policy will allow Columbia not to share its direction path to
CERN to NYU.

                                                                       Application Layer: 2-12
Example Question
#4: Four nodes form a network topology as below. When                                    B
                                                                                  2              3
they run the distance vector routing algorithm, what is the                   A                      C
initial distance vector table at A and B? What is the                           5
                                                                                          6
                                                                                                   3
converged distance vector at A and B respectively, after                                 D
exchanging distance vectors with neighbors?

                                B’s initial DV table   A’s final DV
A:   A’s initial DV table                                             B’s final DV
            B      C        D            A     C       Dst   min       Dst   min
      B     2     ∞     ∞         A      2     ∞        B      2        A     2
      C    ∞       6    ∞         C     ∞      3        C      5        C     3

      D    ∞      ∞         5                           D      5        D     6

                                                                                      Application Layer: 2-13
Example Question
#5: Four nodes are located as shown in the
right figure. The circles illustrate nodes’
carrier sensing ranges. When node A is
transmitting data to B, who are the
potential hidden terminals and exposed        A   B     C
terminals?

                                                  E
A: Hidden terminal: C, E, no exposed
terminal.


                                                      Application Layer: 2-14
